In server/routes.ts make exactly three surgical fixes to the onboarding flow. Touch nothing else.
Fix 1 — RESET works everywhere always. Find the very first line of the handleMessage function. Before any other code runs — before onboarding check, before GPT, before everything — add this exact check:
if (message.trim().toLowerCase() === 'reset') {
await db.delete(users).where(eq(users.phone, phone));
return 'Fresh start. What's your name?';
}
That is it. Four lines. RESET deletes the user completely and returns one message. Nothing else runs.
Fix 2 — Allergies must be captured. Find the medical conditions onboarding state handler. It currently checks if the answer is a number between 1 and 8 or the word none. Add this check before the existing number validation. If the incoming message does not contain any digit and does not equal none case insensitive — treat it as an unlisted medical note. Store the full message text in a field called otherMedicalNotes on the user record. Then respond with exactly this: Got it, I have noted that. Do you have any of the listed conditions as well? Reply with a number or None. Do not advance the state. Wait for their next reply which will be a number or none. Only advance to the injuries state after receiving a valid number or none response.
Fix 3 — Invalid answers never advance the state. Find every onboarding state handler. Each one has a section that processes the answer and advances to the next state. In every single one add a validation check at the top. The validation rules are: AGE state expects a number between 10 and 100. WEIGHT HEIGHT state expects at least one number. GOAL state expects a number between 1 and 5. LIFE SITUATION state expects a number between 1 and 6. MEDICAL state expects a number between 1 and 8 or the word none. INJURIES state accepts any text including none — this one is free text so always advance. EQUIPMENT state expects a number between 1 and 5. TRAINING DAYS state expects a number between 1 and 5. EXPERIENCE state expects a number between 1 and 4. BUDGET state expects a number between 1 and 4. WORK SCHEDULE state expects a number between 1 and 5.
For any state where the answer fails validation respond with a single short line acknowledging what they said and re-ask the question simply. Examples: AGE state receives hello — respond with: Just your age — how old are you? GOAL state receives I want to be fit — respond with: Reply with a number — 1 for lose fat, 2 for build muscle, 3 for both, 4 for general fitness, 5 for health condition. Never advance on an invalid answer. Never skip. Never ignore.
Do not touch any other code. Restart the server.